>> Kyle Simpson: So now you understand
what the syntactic sugar layer looks like,
but let's peel back the covers,
look underneath, and
find out how the prototype system that
it's layered on top of actually works.
Exactly the same as everything else I've
taught you, it's better to understand
these systems than to just have, well, I
don't know how it works, it's a black box.
Or worse,
have a totally wrong mental model for it.
So we wanna look at how
the prototype system works, and
specifically how its used to implement
class systems in JavaScript.
First observation I would make is that
objects that exist in our programs that we
can see and that we create or
that we interact with,
they're always created by these
so-called constructor calls.
You might remember in our discussion
of this keyword that I said that new in
front of a function call
is a constructor call.
That is not the same thing as
saying there's a constructor,
it is to simply say that
that is basically for
lack of a better term when you use
new in front of a function call it's
constructing an object to be used for
this binding of that function call.
So that's where objects come from.
They come via new from
these constructor calls.
And it is often said that in that process
of constructing these new objects
that it's making that object based
on the constructor's prototype.
>> Kyle Simpson: That phrase based on
is what I have to take issue with.
So I'm gonna just for
a moment diverge from or
go down from talking about JavaScript.
I'll take off the JavaScript hat for
a moment, and
I wanna talk more about
the foundations of class theory.
As if you were in CS101 and they were
gonna teach you all about classes,
what would they explain
to you about classes?
Well, number one, the most common metaphor
to describe the difference between
a class and an instance is that a class
is the abstract pattern for a thing.
It's like a blueprint.
And the instance is like when an architect
takes the blueprint and builds the thing.
It's the literal concrete thing.
So we have blueprint, abstract,
plan, that's the class.
We have physical, concrete,
object, that's the instance.
That's the most common of those metaphors.
Now in that metaphor,
whether you realize it or not,
there's something being implied to you.
And you're picking up on and
you're internalizing,
just like anybody else that's ever
done class-oriented coding has.
And it is that class-oriented coding
is fundamentally a copy operation.
And I get push back on this a lot, when I
say this, people that like classes will
push back and they say, no,
no, no, but, but, but, but.
And they'll point to lots of other
examples of languages where it's
not exactly that.
The truth is that there is
no one specific standard for
what the class design pattern really is.
There's a lots of different ones.
But it is also true that the majority of
people that write JavaScript, the first
time they ever saw something like a class
was in a language like Java or C++.
So Java and C++'s flavor of classes is
heavily influential in the mind and
mental model that people
have about classes.
Certainly my CS program did all Java and
all C++, that's the only
class learning they did for the entire
however many years I was in school.
And I think I'm definitely not the only
one who comes to JavaScript by way of
what I would call more traditional
class-oriented languages.
And when we say this idea of copying,
and when we teach it in a CS program
as if there's a copy behavior,
that means something.
It means something about our expectations,
our even subconscious expectations
about what we think the code will do.
So here's why that metaphor implies
that copy relationship without you
potentially even knowing it.
Let's imagine that you draw up
the blueprints for a building and
then you go build the building.
The architect builds, he designs it and
then somebody goes and builds it.
Now, what would happen if you came back
to the blueprints and you erased a wall?
Is that wall gonna disappear
from the building?
No, that would be crazy, right?
That would be really weird.
What happens if you went
to the building and
you installed a new window that
wasn't in the original plans?
Does it magically show
up on the blueprint?
The reason is because the relationship
that existed between the blueprint and
the building existed for
the split second, if you will,
that it was being instantiated.
The characteristics from
the blueprint were copied into
the real building and
then the relationship ceased to exist.
You follow me?
So that metaphor in and of itself and
the way we think about what we're
doing when we're instantiating.
When you make an instance of a class,
the mental model that you're getting is my
instance is a copy of all those behaviors.
They're inherited, and that's copying.
Speaking of inherited,
when you start talking about classes you
immediately start talking about parent and
child classes, and
all what inheritance is about.
An inheritance is also
fundamentally a copy operation.
The metaphor that's most often used to
describe inheritance is the genetic
metaphor.
Now I have a son, he's eight years old and
when he was created,
he got a copy of my DNA.
>> Kyle Simpson: He now exist as
an entirely independent person.
If he breaks his leg in his baseball game
tonight, my leg is not gonna get broken.
And if I lose my hair someday,
hopefully he does lose his hair.
We are distinct people, but
we had a relationship at the moment of
creation that was a copy relationship.
>> Kyle Simpson: As a matter of fact,
even when you think about many languages,
interpreters, compilers,
will implement classes,
they will actually flatten them for
performance reasons.
They will literally copy down into
the instance, cuz it's much faster for
the instance to have a reference to the
function instead of having to look up some
dynamic class hierarchy chain.
They only maintain the class hierarchy
chain when there's relative polymorphism.
It's called a virtual table.
That's from C++, okay?
So in all possible ways
that you slice this,
the relationship that is implied
by classes is a copy relationship.
And so we pop the stack of
our conversation back to
this statement on the slide,
and that phrase based on.
When we say a constructor call is making
the object based on its prototype,
we're saying in our mental
model that the constructor is
making a copy of the prototype
in the instance.
Except there's a little tiny detail,
which is JavaScript doesn't
do any copying at all.
As a matter of fact, to properly describe
what is happening when a constructor call
makes an object, it doesn't make it
based on the constructor's prototype.
It makes it linked to the prototype.
>> Kyle Simpson: Now there are many
that have argued with me and
said, it have disagreed with me and
said copying versus linking is
a distinction without difference.
There's no difference there, it doesn't
matter, there are just two different sides
of the same thing,
linking is just the dynamic form of copy.
And I couldn't disagree more.
Linking and copying are not just two
different sides of the same coin,
they are completely and fundamentally and
diametrically opposite to each other.
And they completely change what your
expectation of a system is based on
whether your mental model
is all about copying, or
your mental model is all about linking.
>> Kyle Simpson: It matters what
mental model you're using for
expectation because when the program
breaks, why did it break?
It broke because you had a divergence
between what you were thinking,
your mental model, and
what the system was actually doing.
If you're thinking copying and it's doing
linking, guess what is going to occur.
Not maybe, will occur, bugs.
Cuz your mental model diverges
from the way it works.
>> Kyle Simpson: So I have a problem
with this whole notion of trying to take
a class system, which is fundamentally
copy, the design pattern's
fundamentally copy, and put it on top
of a language that doesn't do copies.
>> Kyle Simpson: It doesn't fit.
And it shouldn't be surprising that
we've had so much trouble making
JavaScript look and feel and
behave like a class-related language.
They're just not designed to fit together.
At least in the mental model you
get from say a Java or a C++.